Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will learn about responsive images.
We will begin by asking the question what is a responsive image and why do we need it.
Next we will look at an example page that I set up and we will see that there are two unique situations
when we would want to use a responsive image in each of these situations calls for different code.
And finally by the end of the lesson we will apply what we've learned by beginning to add responsive
images to our travel Web site.
All right let's begin.
Up at the top.
Number one what is a responsive image and why do we need it a responsive image is very similar to a
traditional image.
So for example here is a traditional image.
So right now we are looking at an example page that I set up for this lesson.
And here's what it looks like in the browser.
Now this image file is well suited for a desktop monitor or a large laptop.
But if we view this same page on a smartphone form factor I immediately see two big problems.
Number one is that we are forcing smartphone users to download way more data than is necessary for them
to see a crisp photo of the dog.
The smartphone users should not have to download an image that is almost two thousand pixels wide when
an image that is about 500 pixels would do just fine.
So currently this is needlessly burning through this smartphone users data plan.
The second big problem is simply the way that the image is cropped right.
So this image is very wide and not very tall.
Now this cropping and aspect ratio works wonderfully on a large wide screen but on a smaller screen
it just feels kind of scrunched up I think on smaller screens the image would look better if it was
closer to a square.
And if we could crop around the dog's face very tightly.
All right.
So clearly this page in its current form is not ideal.
And the problem is that this traditional image element is forcing us to send one single image file to
every user and device under the sun.
Instead what we need is a way to send different image files to different screen sizes and that is exactly
what responsive images do.
So right now we are going to work through two unique examples of converting this traditional image into
a responsive image.
Now the reason I said two examples instead of just one is because there are two distinct reasons to
use a responsive image in the first place.
And depending on which reason or situation you're dealing with you need to write different code.
All right.
So the first situation when you would use a responsive image let's call it the art direction and cropping
situation.
And let's call the second situation the image resolution and file size situation.
So in our first example we will look at the art direction and cropping situation.
So I've prepared these three images small medium and large and in our second example we will look at
the image resolution and file size situation.
So for that example I've prepared these three images small medium and large.
Now in this example these three images are identical.
They are the exact same photograph.
They are cropped exactly the same.
The only difference is their size.
All right.
So let's work through both examples.
Let's begin with the first one.
The art direction and cropping situation.
Let's get started by jumping into our text editor and I'm going to delete this traditional image so
we can start with a clean slate.
So when you want to send different images to different users because of art direction or cropping reasons
you use the picture element.
Now within the picture element we want to begin with a traditional image element.
Right.
So image source and we want to begin with the smallest image.
So for this example page I have images folder and let's grab the smallest image.
So its name is Dog crop small.
Let's be sure to provide an altered value say puppy in the sand and close out this image element.
So if we save this and refresh the browser no surprises here.
So that image will be used for all devices.
But here's where things get interesting within this picture element we can create another element named
source.
And within this source element we can create a media query.
So let's create a media query that targets any screens that are 760 pixels or larger so we can just
say minimum width min width 760 pixels.
And what do we want to do for screens that are in this size or larger.
We no longer want to use these small image of the.
Instead when a screen is this size or larger we want to use the medium sized image of the dog.
So within the source element we can just use a new attribute named source set and point towards the
medium image.
So images dog crop medium dot J.
So if we save this file and refresh in the browser if I start to expand this window as soon as it reaches
a width of 760 pixels it switches from the small image to the medium image.
Let's go ahead and set up our large image to do that.
We can just create another source element.
So let's create a media query that selects any screens that are at least twelve hundred pixels or larger.
So if a screen meets this condition we want to use the large image.
So source set and then we just point towards the large image dog crop large dot j peg.
So if we save and refresh as I start to make this window larger once it hits twelve hundred pixels it
begins to use the large image.
So let's see all three sizes back to back really quickly.
So here's large here's medium and here's small.
So that brings example one to a close.
This is how you create a responsive image when you need to have fine grained control over how your images
are being cropped at different screen sizes.
All right.
So when you need to use a responsive image for Art Direction reasons you use the picture element.
Now let's move on to example number two.
Let's delete this code.
So we've covered the art direction and cropping situation.
Now let's talk about the image resolution and file size situation.
So in this example we are dealing with these three images small medium and large.
In this example we love the way that the image is cropped.
We want it to be cropped like this for every screen size.
However even though that's the case there's still no reason to make a smartphone user download this
large image that is intended for desktop monitors.
That would be a waste of their data plan and it would make the page load slower than if they could download
the small image instead.
In this case we do not need to use the picture element.
Instead we can begin with a traditional image element and all we need to do is create a smorgasbord
of image file options for the web browser and device to choose from.
So we use the source set attribute.
And within this one attribute we are going to list all of our images.
So let's start with the small image dog resolution small dot JPEG.
Then we just add a comma and list out our medium sized image comma.
Let's include the large image images dog resolution large dog JPEG.
So in this situation we are taking a very hands off approach.
We don't need to write a media query.
We don't have any opinion whatsoever about when the browser or device should use each one of these images.
The browser and the device can figure that out on their own right because devices are self-aware.
They know the size of their own screen and they also know the pixel density of their screen.
So browsers and devices are intelligent enough to choose the smallest image file that will still result
in a crisp picture.
However as a developer we do need to help the web browser out a little bit because web browsers can
figure out the size of an image but not until it's downloaded it and we don't want the web browser to
have to download all three images that would defeat the entire purpose of this responsive image.
So what we need to do is tell the browser the size of each image so it knows which one to use.
So for example after we list the small image before the comma we just include a space and then we say
five hundred and seventy W..
This is our way of saying hey web browser.
This image is 570 pixels wide.
All right.
And then we just want to do that for the medium image as well.
So after the file name a space and this image is twelve hundred pixels wide.
And after the large image file name includes space and this image is one thousand nine hundred and twenty
pixels wide.
Now before we save this and tested out in the browser let's add a quick alter value puppy in the sand.
Let's save the file and refresh in the browser.
So my web browser google chrome looked at the pixel density of my monitor and the current size of my
browser window and it determined that the small image was large enough to result in a crisp picture.
And if I start to make this window larger as soon as the small image would be too small and it would
begin to pixel late or blur Google Chrome knows to switch to the medium image and obviously if we make
the window even larger at some point it will need to switch to the large image in order to stay crisp.
Now different devices and different browsers have different ways of determining when they should use
which image.
So I want to point out and remind you that this is a very hands off approach.
We are not trying to micromanage when the browser should use which image we provide a smorgasbord of
options.
We take our hands off the keyboard and say this is out of our control.
It is up to the device to make the smartest image choice.
Now really quickly before we move on I want to show you an example of why you shouldn't stress over
which image the device is choosing.
So for example in Google Chrome if I refresh the page while the browser window is relatively large and
I start to shrink the screen you'll notice that it never uses the medium sized image.
And even at the smallest size that I can drag to it's not using the small image.
This is because Chrome is intelligent enough to know that if an image was sharp enough for a large window
it's obviously sharp enough for a small window and there's no sense in burning through extra data to
download those smaller images.
Now that is a great feature but it can be a bit frustrating when you're testing things out and developing
on your computer.
So you might ask yourself how can I make sure that my small image is set up correctly.
You can do a few things you can clear your browsers cache and not visit this page until you've already
made the browser window small or you can open up a new incognito window and visit the page and the larger
image will no longer be in the browser's cache so it will download the smartest image choice for this
window size which is obviously the small image.
All right.
So at this point we've worked through the two examples.
We now know the two different reasons to create a responsive image.
The first was centered around art direction and how we cropped the images a different screen sizes in
the second situation was more concerned with image resolution file size and making sure that the page
loads quickly.
Now we are ready to move on to the final part of this lesson and apply what we've learned so let's work
together to add responsive images to our travel agency Web site.
Let's get started.
If you need to pause this lesson for just a moment to get things set up that's OK.
But to get things rolling in the command line.
Just use NPM run Dev.
And then in your browser you can visit local host colon three thousand so let's give ourselves the task
of making the image in this large hero block responsive.
Currently if we make our browser window smaller we see that the way this image is cropped is problematic
for smaller screen sizes.
We know exactly how to fix this.
So let's get to work.
Go ahead and open up the travel site project folder in your favorite text editor and within the app
folder open up the index start each TMM file.
So let's look for that large hero section.
Here it is.
And here is the image element that we want to replace.
Before we delete this line of code though we see that the image file we are currently pointing towards
is named Hero large.
And if we look within the image folder for the project.
So travel site app assets images we see that here is that hero large file and you will notice that there
is another file named Hiro medium hero small and even hero smaller.
And all of these images are cropped differently.
So let's go ahead and delete this traditional image element and replace it with the picture element
that we learned about earlier.
So within the picture element we want to create a traditional image element and we always want to begin
with the smallest image first.
So image source and the name of the smallest image is hero dash dash smaller.
So we want to go into the assets folder and then the images folder and the name of the file as hero
dash dash smaller dot JPEG.
And while we are here let's be sure to include an old value let's say coastal view of ocean and mountains.
So if we save this and check our browser we see that that looks a lot better.
This image is cropped in a way so that it is tall enough and creates enough space for our content for
the section.
All right.
And four screens that are slightly larger.
Instead of using hero dash dash smaller we want to use hero dash dash.
Small.
So within this picture element we just create a new source element and let's set up a media query.
Let's say that if a screen is at least 640 pixels or larger.
Stop using the smaller image and begin using source set.
The next largest image which is in the assets folder in the images folder and its name is hero dash
dash small to if we save this and make our browser window just a tiny bit wider we see that it hits
the break point and swaps to the new image.
So now we want to do the same thing for the medium and large image.
So let's actually just copy and paste this line of code and let's duplicate it a few times.
So this line of code is good to go.
Let's edit this line of code.
So instead of small let's change this to medium and let's change the media query to use a min width
of nine hundred and ninety pixels.
And for this top source line let's change this to large and let's change its media query to one thousand
three hundred and eighty pixels.
So let's save this.
And check out the browser we start making the window larger.
This is now using the medium image.
And if we go even larger This is now using the large image.
Now you might think that our job here is done.
We encountered an art direction and cropping situation and we created a responsive image.
But what if I told you we can also combine the image resolution and file size situation into this responsive
image.
So for example when my browser window is quite large like this this image file is one thousand nine
hundred and twenty pixels wide.
Now that looks great on my monitor because the monitor I'm using right now does not have a very high
pixel density.
But what if I was using a four K monitor or even a five K monitor.
In that case we would want to send an even larger image that is using this exact same cropping ratio.
And if you look in the project's image folder you will notice that that larger higher resolution copy
of each image already exists.
So for example here is hero dash dash large.
And here we see hero dash dash large high DP eye.
So these two files use the exact same cropping ratio but this one is double the size.
So within our code within the source element for the large image within the source set attribute we
can simply provide another image so we add a comma and a space and then we say assets images hero dash
dash large dash high dash DCI dot J peg and then remember we want to tell the browser the size of each
of these images so it knows which one to use.
So for this first file it has a width of one thousand nine hundred and twenty pixels.
And the high DP version is double that.
So it has a width of three thousand eight hundred and forty pixels.
Let's go ahead and add in the high DP versions for the medium small and smaller crops.
So that way if someone's laptop or tablet or smartphone is using a retina display or something similar
they will have an image large enough to result in a crisp picture.
So on this medium line let's add in a second image assets images hero dash dash medium high DP guy and
then we want to add in the width values for both of these images.
So the baseline medium file is one thousand three hundred and eighty pixels wide and the high DP version
is double that two thousand seven hundred sixty pixels wide.
Let's do the same thing for this small version.
So we add a comma assets images hero dash dash small high DP by the baseline version of this image is
nine hundred and ninety pixels wide the high DP version is one thousand nine hundred and eighty pixels
wide.
And finally for the smallest crop we want to change this attribute from source to source set and then
we just want to add in the second image.
So karma assets images hero dash dash smaller high DP.
So the baseline copy of this image is six hundred and forty pixels wide and the high DP version is 1280.
So let's save this file and check things out in the browser.
So now we have a responsive image that sends different crops to different screen sizes and at each unique
crop it can send a high CPI version if necessary that will bring this lesson to a close and in our next
lesson I will show you a few quick tips to help you test and experiment with your responsive images.
I will see you in the next lesson.